Azure :

1. Microsoft azure is avaialable in 140 countries and supportds  10 languages and 19 currencies.
2. Azure operates in 17 regions and each region contains one or more than one datacentre.
3. These datacenteres are strategically placed at different geographic locations and are connected by hig-performance fibre optic networks, they provide 
continious support to more than 200 cloud services such as Microsoft bing, office 365 etc.
4.MCIO : Microsoft cloud infrastructure and operations - team that manages and runs azure infrastructure
5.MCIO is formely known as Global foundation Service.
6. Affinity Group is a way to group your cloud services by proximity to each other in an azure datacentre to minimize communication latency. when you put your services
in the same affinity group, azure known as that they should be deployed on the hardware that is close to one another to reduce network latency. 


Datacenters : 

1. Traditionally datacenter design focus on incrasing Mean Time between failures(MTBF) with a few servres available to host certain workloads. 
2. Each of these servers is required to be highly available so that a healthy server can remain online for an extended period of time when a failing server being repaired 
or replaced, with commodity servers such long MTBF cant be guaranteed,
2. Cloud scale datacenter do have an advantage : they have lots of servers, when one server is failing, its workloads can be directed to another healthy for recovery,
this workload migration mechanism  makes it possible for customer service to recover from hardware failures quickly, in other words cloud scale datacenters focus more 
on Mean time to Recover(MTTR)  instead of MTBF.
4. To bring MTTR to its minimum requirements,automation is the key. Errors must be detected and handled automatically so that they can be fixed with minimum delays.
5. Security : Azure has been independently verified by a diverse range of compliance programs, such as ISO 27001/27002, FISMA, HIPPA, FedRAMP and EU Model clauses.
6. Microsoft runs some of the most efficient cloud-scale datacenters in hte world with Power Usage effectiveness(PUE) measures as low as 1.125.
7. PUE is the ratio between total faciity power usage and IT equipments power usage. A lower PUE means less power is consumed to support day to day facility operations such as providing 
office lightining and running elavators.
8. When Azure updates VMs, it guarantees that not all the machines in the same avaialability set will be shut down at the same time. To ensure your application
availability you should deploy your application on an availability set with at least 2 VMs.
9. Only Multi-instance VMs qualify for the service level agreement(SLA) provided by azure.
10. Azure supprt 3 different authentication strategies 1. using a secret key 2. shared access signature 3. Federated authentication via Azure AD.
    
       
